Using Kilim in OSGi environment
===============================


Run-time code instrumentation required by Kilim can be employed in OSGi environment
by means of so-called Adaptor Hooks. Please see [1] for more information on them.


Enabling Kilim instrumentation
------------------------------

To instrument plugin classes with Javaflow, add the following header into the 
bundle manifest file (META-INF/MANIFEST.MF): “Kilim-Enabled: true”.

You also need to import “kilim” and “kilim.fiber” packages. Don't forget to enable
the corresponding bundles (“org.kilim.osgi” and “org.kilim.osgi.fibers”) in your
launch configuration.


Running your application with Kilim instrumentation
---------------------------------------------------

Please refer to [1]. In short, for *development* mode:

1) Open “Plug-ins” view, find org.eclipse.osgi and choose “Import As > Source Project”.

2) Make sure org.eclipse.osgi (from your workspace), org.kilim.osgi and org.kilim.osgi.fibers
are enabled in the launch configuration.

3) Make extra sure org.eclipse.osgi and org.kilim.osgi are located
in the same file system directory (e.g. both in the workspace folder).

4) Recheck that the launch configuration includes org.eclipse.osgi from your workspace,
not org.eclipse.osgi from the platform.

5) Add “-Dosgi.framework.extensions=org.kilim.osgi” to VM arguments of
your launch configuration (found on Arguments tab).


For *production* (compiled & jared plugins) mode:

1) Compile org.kilim.osgi into a jar, and make sure the jar includes
a version number (e.g. org.kilim.osgi_1.0.0.jar).

2) Put org.kilim.osgi_*.jar into eclipse/plugins folder (i.e. into
exactly the same folder where org.eclipse.osgi_*.jar is located).

3) Also compile org.kilim.osgi.fibers into a jar, this one can be treated
like any other plugin (i.e. put anywhere Eclipse can find plugins, etc).

4) Add “osgi.framework.extensions=org.kilim.osgi” to config.ini.


Failure to do any of these steps will cause the Kilim extension to be silently
ignored. In case you find yourself debugging it, two places of interest are:

- org.eclipse.equinox.launcher/org.eclipse.equinox.launcher.Main.readFrameworkExtensions
(Reads extensions list from “osgi.framework.extensions” property and sets up
the class path of the system bundle. The same property is read from numerous other
locations, but those locations do not affect anything loaded from the extension.)

- org.eclipse.osgi/org.eclipse.osgi.baseadaptor.HookRegistry.mergeFileHookConfigurators
(Actually reads the list of hook configurators from hookconfigurators.properties.)


A few more facts
----------------

1) To provide run-time instrumentation, you need adaptor hooks.

2) Adaptor hooks can only be registered in OSGi extension bundles [2]

3) OSGi extension bundles cannot require any other bundles

4) Equinox launcher reads eclipse.properties to determine the extension classpath
(in case you wonder why the file is needed).


References
----------

[1] http://wiki.eclipse.org/index.php/Adaptor_Hooks
[2] OSGi R4 Core Reference, Section 3.15 “Extension Bundles”
